# Password Manager
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/kBbWrb0cnFM
#### Description:
This project is a web based password manager built with Flask that allows users to register, authenticate, generate strong passwords, evaluate password strength, and store credentials securely in an encrypted vault. It is designed to be employed with modern web security concepts, including authentication, hashing, key derivation, session management, and user focused security feedback.

The core of the application provides a full authentication workflow, allowing users to create an account through a registration page where passwords are hashed using werkzeug.security, ensuring that even if the database were compromised, original passwords would remain protected. During login, credentials are verified securely, and authenticated users are assigned a private session that controls access to protected routes. Session handling is implemented carefully to limit unauthorized access while preserving usability features such as flash messages and redirects by utilizing the login_required helper function from finance. Users are prompted to create a username, as well as a password, which must meet several security standards such as including uppercase/lowercase letters, digits, and symbols, similar to the password strength checker in the website, which I will describe in detail in a later paragraph. Users are then prompted to confirm the password, and once they do so, they are redirected to the login page where they will enter the username and password they just registered to enter their private session.

Once authenticated, users gain access to a personal vault, which acts as a secure container for saved credentials, such as website names, usernames, passwords, and personal notes. Users can enter new vault entries by clicking "Add Password", where they must enter a label and a password for the entry, and also the option to enter a username and notes. Each vault entry is associated with the currently logged in user, isolating the different accounts registered. Sensitive vault data is encrypted before storage and decrypted only when needed, keeping the data as secure as possible. I've decided to use SQLAlchemy instead of a raw SQLite file for storage as it is easier to manage in my opinion. On the main page of the website, there is a search bar where users can look for the specific login information they are looking for, and click on the credentials, which will lead them to another page where the info is originally hidden, and only shown when users decide to click "show". Users can copy the password onto their clipboard by pressing "copy". Users also have the ability to edit and delete previous entries for a smoother user experience.

A built in password generator is included to encourage strong password practices. Users can generate random passwords based on their preference of length, as well as types of characters to include, such as uppercase/lowercase letters, digits, and symbols. The generated passwords contain characters in a random order, increasing the difficulty to decipher them. Users can copy the generated password to their clipboard by clicking the "copy" button.

In addition to generation, the project also includes a password strength checker, which allows users to check the strength of a password. Users will enter a password phrase into the textbox, and the system will display a score regarding the strength of the password. The scoring is based on a 0-4 scale, which represents very weak, weak, ok, strong and very strong respectively. Each point can be earned by meeting different requirements, such as length (a minimum of 8 characters for a point, and a minimum of 12 characters for an extra point), and the usage of different types of characters mentioned above (a minimum of 2 different types of characters for one point, and an extra point for 3 different types of characters). The strength checker also has common passwords, such as "password" or "12345678" hardcoded as a list so it can immediately identify these weak passwords and deliver the correct feedback. In addition, the strength checker provides feedback visually using a progress bar, as well as suggestions on how to strengthen the provided password if it hasn't achieved full marks.

Overall, this password manager not only serves as a vault to secure user data, but also a tool to help users better protect their information outside of this website itself.


